FUNDFOLIO - LOCAL MUTUAL FUND PORTFOLIO

Requires Node.js 22.9 or newer (Node.js 24 LTS recommended), including npm.
No runtime dependencies, accounts, database, trading, or external browser assets.
The server binds only to 127.0.0.1. This is a local-only application.

INSTALL AND RUN (PowerShell, from this project directory)

  npm install
  Copy-Item .env.example .env
  notepad .env


In the editor, set EODHD_API_KEY to your own key, save, and close the file.
Do not include the key in browser URLs, public files, screenshots, or commits.
Do not repeat Copy-Item over an existing .env containing your key.
An existing shell environment variable takes precedence over .env.

  npm start

Open http://127.0.0.1:3000
Stop with Ctrl+C. Restart after changing .env or holdings.js.
For automatic restarts during development: npm run dev
To change the port, edit PORT in .env.
Without a key, EODHD funds report Price unavailable. The website-backed Erste
fund can still fetch prices without an API key.

If your network requires the HTTPS_PROXY / HTTP_PROXY environment variables,
use Node.js 24.5+ and start with proxy support enabled:

  node --use-env-proxy --env-file=.env server.js

Use the port shown in the startup message (PORT in .env overrides 3000).

EDIT QUANTITIES

Edit holdings.js only. Units are decimal strings using a dot, for example
'1.882', '2.993', and '13.874'. These are not thousands-separated amounts.
Names, ISINs, and units are returned from this same configuration to the browser.

VERIFICATION

  npm test

Uses Node's built-in test runner. Provider responses in automated tests are
synthetic fixtures, not actual prices or evidence of EODHD coverage.
After configuring a real key, open the dashboard or inspect safe server output:

  Invoke-RestMethod http://127.0.0.1:3000/api/portfolio | ConvertTo-Json -Depth 6

Each fund reports resolved, symbol, status, priceDate, fetchedAt, and an explicit
unavailability reason. A resolved symbol does not imply EOD pricing is covered.
No actual resolution or valuation date is claimed until EODHD returns that data.

DATA AND COVERAGE

1. The server searches EODHD by ISIN with type=fund and limit=500.
2. For EODHD funds it only accepts an exact returned ISIN, Currency=EUR, Type=Fund/Mutual Fund,
   and validated nonempty Code and Exchange fields. It constructs SYMBOL.EXCHANGE
   from these returned fields, never from a guessed ticker or fund name.
   Primary listings are tried first. Other verified EUR listings of the SAME
   ISIN can be tried if a listing has no usable EOD data.
3. The server requests EOD data with order=d and period=d. It validates dates,
   selects the newest returned date, and uses the raw close, NOT adjusted_close.
   Currency is verified through the matching search metadata: EOD price bars do
   not carry their own ISIN/currency. Missing verification means no valuation.
4. Search previousClose is not used as a fallback. No alternative share class,
   foreign-currency price, FX conversion, fabricated price, or demo quote is used.
5. These are end-of-day prices / mutual fund NAVs, NOT live prices. They may lag by
   one or more business days; each card shows its own actual price date.
   Different valuation dates are not silently aligned or estimated.
6. Missing metadata, absent coverage, subscription restrictions, API failures,
   timeouts, and rate limits are distinguished from a successful zero holding.
   EODHD's search covers active instruments only and its demo token cannot search.
   A failed search is not proof the fund itself does not exist.

The API key is used only for server-to-EODHD HTTPS requests. The browser only
calls the local /api/portfolio endpoint. Upstream response/error bodies and
authenticated URLs are never sent to the browser or logged.

ERSTE WEBSITE FUND

SK3110000377 uses provider: 'erste-website' in holdings.js and does not call EODHD.
The source is the official historical-price page:
https://www.erste-am.sk/en/eamsk/historicalprices/fond-maximalizovanych-vynosov/SK3110000377

The server reads that page's historical table configuration, then retrieves the
same unauthenticated GEM_FACTSHEET data used by the website, on data.erste-am.com.
This is the site's public implementation, not a contracted/stable third-party API.
It may change; unexpected HTML/data formats fail with an explicit unavailable state.
The endpoint is allowlisted and no EODHD token is ever sent to Erste.

The exact returned ISIN must match. Each price date and currency is checked.
Comma-decimal NAV strings are parsed without cent-rounding the unit price.
The latest dated row must contain a positive EUR NAV; issue price is never used.
Older SKK-denominated rows are excluded from the EUR history without FX conversion.
Other share classes are never substituted, including the page's default fund.
The card links back to the official website and labels this price as a NAV.

Website prices/history share the 1-hour portfolio cache and 60-second minimum
refresh interval. Rate limits are independent of EODHD so either provider can
remain working when the other fails. The portfolio chart includes the new fund
on common EUR valuation dates, using the configured current unit count.
CSV invested totals remain limited to funds actually present in the CSV: adding
a holding does not invent purchase transactions or change contribution totals.

CACHE AND REFRESH

Caches are in server memory and reset on restart; no database is used.
Verified ISIN mappings last 7 days; unverified mappings last 6 hours.
Prices last 1 hour. Missing price data is cached for 6 hours; transient failures
for 60 seconds. Simultaneous browser requests share one in-flight update.
Refresh bypasses the price cache after at least 60 seconds, but retains the
mapping cache. It does not guarantee a new NAV has been published.
HTTP 429 Retry-After is respected (minimum 60 seconds).
Restart the server if you need to discard all caches after correcting access.
An unavailable price excludes that fund; other successful funds still contribute.
A failed provider refresh does not silently reuse a previous price.
If the local server itself cannot be reached, the browser preserves its previous
snapshot with an explicit warning that it may be outdated.

TIMESTAMPS AND CALCULATIONS

priceDate: the valuation date returned by EODHD (not the time you click Refresh).
fetchedAt: the time that fund's successful price request completed.
attemptedAt: when that fund's most recent uncached update was attempted.
servedAt: when the local API assembled the response; not a fresh provider fetch.
Cached prices retain their original fetchedAt timestamp.
The summary shows the most recent successful price fetch among displayed funds.
Browser timestamps use your local timezone. Valuation dates remain date-only.

Value = units x unadjusted closing price, using decimal integer arithmetic.
Round each holding half-up to EUR cents, then sum those displayed holding values.
Price per unit displays up to 12 decimals; calculations use the returned numeric
price, not its display rounding. Totals exclude unavailable funds and are labeled
"Partial total" whenever any fund is unavailable. If none are priced, EUR 0.00
is explicitly identified as an empty partial sum, not the portfolio's value.

EODHD documentation:
https://eodhd.com/financial-apis/search-api-for-stocks-etfs-mutual-funds
https://eodhd.com/financial-apis/api-for-historical-data-and-volumes

HISTORICAL PORTFOLIO CHART

The chart reconstructs historical values using CURRENT units for every date.
It is not your actual past account balance, investment return, or total return:
it does not know purchase dates, cash flows, unit changes, or reinvestments.
Raw EOD closes are used, not dividend/split-adjusted prices.

The existing EOD requests also supply the history: no extra API calls are made.
History is cached with each fund's current price. Only currently available funds
are included, and that same group is used throughout the series.
If any fund is unavailable, the chart is explicitly labeled partial.
Only exact shared price dates with valid positive prices are calculated.
Missing or unrepresentable historical prices are omitted, never zero-filled or
carried forward. Lines connect the available observations; inspect their exact
dates and values using the pointer tooltip, keyboard arrows, or the data table.
The chart's final value can differ from the headline if funds' latest dates differ.

1M / 3M / 1Y / All choose a period ending at the latest shared observation.
Daily values use the same per-fund cent rounding and summation as the headline.

TRANSACTION CSV

Place fund_transactions_2019-2025.csv in the project root. The server reads it
locally on each refresh via /api/transactions, independently of EODHD prices.
It is excluded from git and never uploaded to EODHD. No database is created.
The raw file is not served; the local API returns validated transaction records.

Required columns: date,isin,fund,operation,amount_eur
Dates: YYYY-MM-DD. Operations: buy or sell. Amounts: positive EUR decimals using
a dot and up to two decimal places. Each ISIN must exist in holdings.js.
Quoted fields, escaped quotes, UTF-8 BOM, CRLF and LF line endings are supported.
Invalid files are rejected in full with an explicit error, not partially imported.
Identical records are retained: without transaction IDs, duplicate-looking rows
can be legitimate separate transactions.

The Investment history section shows all CSV records, newest first, and cash
totals per fund. Net invested is purchases minus sales (not profit or cost basis).
The Invested amount chart groups records by date, sums exact integer cents, and
draws a cumulative step line. It defaults to All so the full file is visible.
The date range ends at the last recorded transaction. Nothing later is inferred.

The CSV does not contain purchased units or execution prices, so no historical
units or past portfolio valuations are inferred from it. Current holdings remain
configured in holdings.js. The Portfolio value chart remains a separate,
clearly labeled current-units reconstruction based on available EODHD prices.
Move the pointer or touch either chart for its date/value bubble. Keyboard users
can focus the chart and use Left/Right, Home/End and Escape. The data table remains
available as a non-graphical alternative; there is no bottom slider.

CHART FUND PICKER

Use the visible fund checkboxes to include any combination of funds, for either
Invested amount or Portfolio value. All funds selects or clears every checkbox.
The chart updates immediately on every change, without refetching prices.
Multiple selected funds are summed into one combined line; no selection shows a
prompt rather than a zero balance. The selection only affects the chart and its data table, not headline
totals, holding cards, or the full transaction ledger.
Individual portfolio history uses that fund's own available EUR dates, rather
than the shared dates used when combining selected funds. Values are current units x price,
not unit NAVs. Individual invested amounts are cumulative purchases minus sales
from that ISIN's CSV records; missing records show an empty state, not zero.
Unavailable selected prices produce a partial chart. Missing CSV records are
explicitly identified as unknown investments, not zero.
Selected funds, chart mode, and period are retained during Refresh.
